<01> description : My symptoms after intercourse threatns me even after having negative HIV result. Kindly help.

<02> patient : Hello doctor,Before two years had sex with a call girl in a dark location for about 10 to15 min. I did not eject, and I am sure that she did not eject as well (not 100 % sure). Do not know if the condom broke (as it was dark) but had some liquid on my penis (maybe fluid in condom, not sure) After few days from then I had cold followed by itchy skin. I took medicine from the doctor and got it resolved.After a few weeks from then, I had fever 100 F, mild night sweats, mild sore throat, slight weight loss (around four to five kg). Also I feel tired most of times. After 50 days, I got an HIV blood test, which came out negative. Do not know the name of the test, they took blood from my fingertip, tested it using some chemical for 40 minutes, and gave a report. Doctor suggested me get the same test after three months. Now I took medicines for flu symptoms which are giving me relief. But, very worried about the situation. Will medicine I used for cold and itchy skin have impact on HIV. Was the test enough for diagnosis as I do not know the name like fourth-generation etc. Also I washed my penis after 20 minutes with water thoroughly. Please help.

<03> doctor : "Hello. The HIV test uses a finger prick blood sample, with results given within 20 minutes, and is 99 % accurate at detecting any HIV exposure that may have occurred more than 12 weeks ago. However, it can potentially pick up HIV infection from as little as four weeks ago. There is nothing to worry nothing will happen, and please repeat your test after 12 weeks. If you want accurate results to get, it has done RNA PCR which will give actual results within 10days. Antigen detection like P24 gives best results with in two to four weeks. Probably your suffering from a simple viral upper respiratory infection. After 12 weeks, please consult your doctor he will examine and treat you accordingly."
