<01> description : I get fever during rainy and winter season. Why?

<02> patient : Hello doctor, During rainy and winter season get frequent fevers. Most of the times I get it diagnosed, and every time doctors tell it is only viral fever. Fevers generally come twice a month. I take Paracetamol and Cefixime usually (on the advice of doctors). Generally, the illnesses go in 10 days. This has been happening from the last three years. Can you suggest any cure for it? I am a small time businessman, and this is affecting my financials. Regarding my medical history, I am a premature baby of seven months. As told by my mom and relatives, I remained alive on medicines with great difficulty. And also from childhood, I used to get skin diseases frequently, and for that, I think I was regularly administered antibiotics.

<03> doctor : "Hello. I need to know a few things, 1. Do you feel feverish, or does the thermometer record a temperature? 2. What other symptoms do you get? Runny or blocked nose, sore throat, throat pain with swallowing, headaches, body pains, etc. 3. Does anyone else around you (family members, co-workers, etc.) develop similar symptoms before or after you do? 4. Do you get any tests done like blood tests or X-rays during those episodes? From your description, it appears that you are getting frequent viral upper respiratory tract infections. These are acquired from other patients through the air (coughing, sneezing, etc.). They are usually short-lived and last no more than five to seven days. Since more than 300 different viruses can cause similar symptoms, you can get infected multiple times each time with a different virus. The same virus cannot affect you again. Unfortunately, antibiotics do not work against viruses. They are meant for bacterial infections only. However, doctors continue to prescribe antibiotics unnecessarily, and this has led to the emergence of widespread bacterial resistance.  Other than symptomatic treatment, no medicine can cure or prevent these infections. They are self-limited, and you will get better even if you do not take any medication. The older you get, the less frequently you will get these infections as your body will be building up defenses with every disease. No household tips or vitamin supplements have been proven to work. Premature birth can lead to increased frequency of infections, but unless the infections are bacterial, not much can be done about them. Please get back to me with answers to the above questions and also attach any test reports you may have."
