<01> description : Are my symptoms due to HIV infection? I had a high-risk exposure 15 months ago.

<02> patient : Hi doctor, After 15 months of unprotected sex, I went for HIV test called Comb AIDS test but, the result came back negative for both HIV-1 and 2. Again after three months, I redid the test, but even this time, the result was negative. I was not satisfied, so I went for ELISA test, and again the results came back negative. I consulted two general physicians, who told me that I do not have HIV. But, I am still worried because of the symptoms that I have. I am a male, who weighs 62 kg, and I am 6 feet tall. The symptoms i'm having are:  severe weakness, ulcers in mouth and tongue, fatigue, pain in legs while sleeping, itching in the private part, occasional sore throat, occasional itching and pain in ears, and black spots on my back.  I remember having loose motions after a week of unprotected sex. At that time, the doctor told me that I have food poisoning, and I was alright after taking medicines. Are these HIV tests done by me reliable? Was the loose motion caused due to HIV? Is it possible that my immune system was so weak to detect antibodies during my HIV test? Should I go for another test such as PCR RNA test? Please help me, I am worried. Your kind response will be appreciated. Thank you.

<03> doctor : "Hi. The test kits used to diagnose HIV are highly sensitive and specific and gives accurate results. The majority of the people who are infected with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) develop antibodies by three months, and even in the rare instances of late seroconversions, they develop HIV antibodies by six months. You can rely on your HIV screening test results. If there had been no other exposure other than that, you do not require any further test. The symptoms which you mentioned could be due to various reasons and cannot be attributed to HIV. In fact, there are no specific symptoms or signs which can lead to the diagnosis of HIV. As per the above information, you are HIV negative. Just relax. Hope your query is answered, but if you have any other query, please do not hesitate to ask or call anytime. Best wishes. For more information consult an HIV AIDS specialist online -->"
